---
layout: post
title: When We Were Orphans
date: 2022-10-08
Author: Jack Zhu
tags: [Kazuo Ishiguro, novel]
comments: true
---
This is the fourth book I've read by *Kazuo Ishiguro*, and I enjoyed it a lot,
esp. this one seemed to be special because the story is about Shanghai, and
Chinese. I might fall into the stories for its fantastic imagination of his
previous books, e.g *Never let me go*, while this one is more realistic in a
way which seemed to impress me more.

![shanghai](/images/shanghai.png)

Being a child is always fun, even when the world is under a very bad condition,
whether it's a war or it's a pandemic. Being a child can always forget the
surroundings and get immersed into whatever he or she is playing. And even
better, they are more careless and optimistic, so they won't easily get bored
or depressed as adults do under such pressure. Therefore, we always remember
those days of time, and the playmates we had, even though we might no longer
get in touch with them. A tree, a green fruit, a puddle of water, a dying frog,
a prank, a secret, etc, they combined together to grow the friendship and those
joyful moments.

Then we grow old and things become heavy, and we cannot be careless any more.
We worry about this and that, and we feel the peer pressure all day long.
Parents are out of our way now, and we don't have to ask their consent to do
things we want to do, but it seems not to make us more free, instead sometimes
we remember those days that we have parents to take care of things and we just
be around worrying nothing.

And we also think about the moments when our parents were still young. It might
an afternoon when you were about to go to school by riding a bicycle, father
would always check the bike for you to ensure it was perfect in every piece,
and tie the luggage and a bag of food tightly at the backseat of the bike,
which would never fail on the way to school. I waived goodbye to them and they
watched me till I vanished into the distance. Or when I got home from school
after a week, mother would always prepare me a very big bowl of noodle, and
watched me to eat them all. I couldn't wait for mom's churning the noodle, so I
started to eat while mom was churning the noodle, which could be an odd image
but a very sweet moment whenever I recollected it.

So far, everything is very peaceful and mundane as my family goes over time,
and that's good enough for me. I don't like dramas as *Kazuo*'s book depicts,
but a more normal and mundane life is everything I am looking for.

Surely Mr. Bank's life is more extraordinary. As he had his best friend, that
Japanese boy *Akira*, just like our playmates, they built a very strong
and close relationship, until at the end they walked through the damaged houses
to look for his parents. 

Of course, his mother was great and made so much sacrifice for him, just like
us. We know or we don't, and our parents are always behind us to watch us and
take care of us. The cost might be their youth, their career, their health, or
their dream. We don't know or even appreciate until one day we look at them and
realize how old they already are, and how frail they seem to be. When he could
see his mom again, she no longer recognized him but that name *Puffy* could
still evoke her deep memory about that kid, who she always worries about.

How about the love? The love with Sarah, that lady, who I made so much fuss
with, who seemed to be someone interacts with Mr. Banks awkwardly. This just
reminds me of the love I could find in Austin's novels. You never expect a true
love to be there waiting for you and you can get it easily but you always have
to take a rollercoaster and fight over the obstacles to win the final triumph.
It's a pity that they didn't be together after such a winding and bumpy course.

The love with his adopted daughter Jennifer is very moving and also cherishing.
Who does not want to have such a daughter like her? She, though adopted, was
there to remind you the beauty of the world, and push you to cherish the time
together, whatever it is. She chortles carelessly, and she sometimes had a bad
temper like a monster, while that is always something the life could give us as
its best gift.

Mr. Banks might live in that shed built by Jennifer, and became the *Uncle* of
her children, and see their growth, take care of them and also be taken care
of, as parents towards kids, and kids parents.
