---
layout: post
title: Never Let Me Go
date: 2022-08-08
Author: Jack Zhu
tags: [Kazuo Ishiguro, Science Fiction, Life, Love]
comments: true
---

[A Pale View of Hills](/a-pale-view-of-hills/) is the first novel I came across
*Kazuo Ishiguro*, which was an amazing reading experience. And then it goes to
this thicker book, *Never Let Me Go*. The title seems to be a little deceiving
that might make readers to assume it's about love only, but it is not.

Life is short and also tough. That's why there's an ancient Chinese saying "To
live peacefully and long is a bless", while it is surely uneasy to reach that
*simple* goal. As long as 80 years, it seems to be long enough as a person's life
length, while we feel it differently, just like something occurred in a
fleeting moment. Suddenly, we are taller than our parents; we graduate from the
colleges; we get married; we have kids; we are old. And we cannot do anything
to slow that down.

![life](/images/life.png)

Therefore, sadness is always there along with the fleeting time. So we try to
find something that could last longer, at least longer than that small number.
Love is something we believe in to last. But who knows what is a true love? Or
even when it is, how could it help? Or just like *Kath* and *Tommy*, it's just
a rumor, and it's never been true. The *deferral* could never be obtained. But
like the guy who chased the sun, it might be futile and it won't go anywhere,
while we are still trying; and then the next generation; and then the next.

Meaning is so abstract and intangible, and we might say it as BS. But a short
life unfolding in front of us might be something worth making meaning out of.
It is surely not just one way to go, but so many paths. We followed one of the
paths, and missed a million others, which is sad but unavoidable. We cannot
compare and assume "what if", but only accept and have to make the tough
decision again over the course. The wit doesn't seem to grow along with our
age, and the decision becomes even harder. And finally a zigzag path of our
life is still unfolding, and each turning point means a great sadness since we
cannot walk along another thousand alternatives. No alternatives in life.

So what if your life is destined? Just like *Kath*, *Ruth* and *Tommy*. And
even when you know it clearly, do you still have the courage to challenge and
fight? They are supposed to be donors and are not common people, but they still
try to read, paint and pursue, even to that abstract *love*. Are we free? Are
we different from them? Are our lives destined? Do we have courage to fight? We
might not be that convinced about fate, so we try to make some difference, but
life might teach you something like luck, family, which are out of your control
but play a more important role. Will you stay put instead and give up your
fighting? The sadness is still there.

One day, a monkey stood straight up and tried to walk using its both legs, and
fouled around. That curiosity made and defined us. Also with enough food, we
started to think deeper and also in a longer term. We tried to improve the life
of dogs and other animals even when they're just supposed to play a specific
role for us. We tried to kill the discrimination whatever it's between races, or
genders, or ages. We are not just for our *selfish* selves, but also for the
species to be able to maintain and prosper. And I guess just like the monkey,
those *students* might become less vulnerable and more capable and strong when
they try to fight and grow and explore love, and finally they will stand up as
a new species.

I sympathize with *Kath* and other *students*, because I saw our species from
them, and I feel the same sadness.
