---
layout: post
title: Noctunes
date: 2022-09-25
Author: Jack Zhu
tags: [fiction, Kazuo Ishiguro]
comments: true
---

Yes, *Kazuo Ishiguro* again, and this time it's the collection of his five
stories *of music and nightfall*. Comparing to novels, short stories might be
more difficult to make it *right*, which means to grip readers immediately and
push readers ahead and leave something behind to allow readers to digest and
think more. But we all know novels are like the pearl of the literature, which
you have to touch if you want to stand out as a real writer.

Does *Kazuo* make it right? I tend to say yes. The five stories is not just
some random short stories, but a series of stories that are connected in some
way, e.g music, life, friends, choice, meaning, compromise, etc.

![Noctunes](/images/nocturne.png)

Music is something close to magic, which makes it so extraordinary and special,
we nearly cannot think anything else with the similar effect upon a mind. A
piece of music, or a song hit you suddenly and you cannot stop thinking it,
humming to yourself, even when there's no voice you make, while a silent voice
is deep inside your mind and you can feel it. And this becomes even more
striking when I started to pick up some music knowledge and start to play
guitar. Something you cannot name clicks and rings nonstop. Maybe I am still a
newbie in music, but it seems to mean more to me, each note, each chord, and
the string of the guitar.

Two dogs might talk about the food and also fight for the food if it's scarce.
Human might not have the problem of food, and they have spare time and they can
talk, therefore they are in need of a real friend, who they can talk intimately
and in a deep way without too much holdback or reservation. It's like to have
some moments when you are drunk or high and you can say anything you want, but
such a friend is better because you are still sober and with a clear head.

Do we love what we are doing? For most, the answer is more like to be a no. Is
that a sad truth? Maybe, but it might also be the result of the modern life
after industry revolution which enables to to enjoy so much entertainment,
food, enjoyment, etc. When we cannot achieve both(higher life quality and
personal life meaning), we might favor the life quality in the expense of our
own life meaning. Like the two musicians, they do what they like in the most
time, i.e travel and play, while they sometimes wish they could be bankers to
have a wealthy life and they also regretted about their only son. Should we be
optimistic or pessimistic when we know the truth of life? This is at least
something we could weigh in.

What makes the meaning of life? Is that a great achievement a person has made?
Or it's the fame he has earned? Yes, for most of us, as ordinary people, we
look up those people with wealth and fame, and we dream the same or even we try
to achieve some, while it might fall short by a lot. The old friends don't talk
too much with us, and they have their new circles, because I am a loser and
have achieved nothing *great*. Should I pity myself? While even for the
*successful*, they also have their own issues, e.g the affair with a dentist,
the marriage crisis, etc. Does this lead to *relativism* and even *nihilism*? At
least we all agree a steak cooked by a michelin chef is better than by
yourself? So we might still need to have some goals in mind.

Do you ever think you are a genius? I think most of us did or even still do. We
think we're better than our peers at something and we should be a genius and
achieve something great. Over time, the confidence might fade a bit until it's
no longer there and you start to acknowledge you are not. And such process is
called it being mature. Being mature makes us believe less in ourselves. Is
that a pity since maybe some of us are really genius? So let's go with an
alternative, i.e we find a decent tutor to teach us and we go to a decent
school to further our study, and after that we try to perform and impress
others and hope to make it hit. It fails almost surely and at this point we
cannot drop the idea of "I am a genius" and keep saying "no one has the right
eyes"? Years later, with so many failures, we might end up being a cab driver
and won't touch the musical instrument or painting brush any longer. But for
such a short life, can we be the survivor of these two cases? The odds are not
in our favor.

So it's such a depressing reality that traps us and stifles us, and seems we're
not unwilling to exchange such grim reality with the materials it can offer us,
even a longer and less meaningful life. What is our way out? Maybe we can have
some perspectives to enjoy our a bit, have a real friend, have some hobbies,
and also examine us regularly to avoid the dropping into the bottom and getting lost
ourselves.
