---
layout: post
title: A Pale View of Hills
date: 2022-07-26
Author: Jack Zhu
tags: [novel, kazuo-ishiguro, Japan, life]
comments: true
---

*Kazuo Ishiguro* is new to me, which seems to be hard to imagine, because I
love Japanese literature a lot, and *Kazuo* is such a big figure. One thing is
more interesting is that he writes in English instead of Japanese even though his subject is closely related to Japan, which makes
him more interesting, for his mixed culture from Japan and Britain.

In my city, there is a top-tier library which has opened for not long and it's
also not far to me. Hence, I visited days ago, which was not a good experience.
And the reason is obvious, i.e the hot weather and the broken AC. We visited it
again about ten days later, which was a much better experience and I wandered
around the big and clean open space with so many wonderful books. It became
hard to pick several books but it ended up borrowing two books from *Kazuo* and
several other good books. With the book mountain inside the bag, we went away
happily. Surely another reason for this successful visit is its great AC.

The book *A Pale View of Hills* is not my first encounter with *Kazuo*'s book.
And actually the first book is his most recent *Klara and the Sun*, with that
fascinating red cover. I haven't finished it but skipping around and reading
here and there for a bit. *A Pale View of Hills* is *Kazuo*'s first novel, and
might not be the best, but I love it very much.

![Japanese](/images/japanese.png)

It's about how to live a life, as a lot of great books touch the same subject.
With the background in Japan and Japanese people, it could be felt differently.
We've got a big house, and we live well and peacefully, but we don't feel
happy, or any of the passion. What else is there besides the big house?
Nothing. Oppositely, a life without certainty, a man without accountability, a
future no one can foresee, but we feel the meaning, we feel the passion.
Therefore we choose to go the difficult but passionate way, even though we've
failed for several times and we almost gave up by using the kids as the excuse.
"Maybe her future is the most important thing." When we are almost moving into
that large but lonely house, we are frozen there and cannot move a baby step.
Everyone is pushing you there, the traditional, conventional, and also the safe
way of life. "For your kid's welfare." they say. We are still standing there,
and couldn't move. We chose the difficult but exciting path. We are brave.

"I", the narrator of the book, initially was not part of that *we* obviously.
She is more conventional and considerate, to the kids, to that woman, to her
husband. She was pregnant and determined to live a certain and happy life and
tried to help that woman in her way. She just watched what happened around her
and her daughter closely, disapprovingly, without agreement. She sometimes
justified her behavior by shouting, "You can ask me anything and I am not
ashamed or embarrassed about anything I've done." Still *Frank* the woman's
lover was never portrayed directly, but indirectly seemed to be a indecent man.
We don't know how she ended up being where, the US or her uncle's big house.
But we know, "I", moved to Britain and lived a brand new life which is
obviously the opposite of what she used to approve. *Live whatever life you
like." is the saying "I" said to "my" another daughter after my first daughter's
suicide. The memory is vivid to "me", because it changed me so much and it made
the present "me".

The two old men, i.e "my" father-in-law, and the noodle shop owner, are very
interesting. They might be more old-school, and stick to something they weigh
highly but no longer popular. It doesn't upset me since that's the norm and it
always repeats. I like her father-in-law, is for his way of doing things, that
Japanese. He tried to hide his feeling and convey it indirectly even when it's
his son. His way of education might be out of date, but he wanted to ask and
confirm the rationale behind it. He still tried to teach his son via chess when
his son is already tired with it. Therefore, it's really brave for him to
confront his student directly even though he didn't get what he really
expected, because he knows clearly he couldn't count on his son. The shop owner
is interesting for her attitude towards life. The bright son has died of the
bomb, and she was very sorry and sad, but she moved forward and kept the shop
well. She surely is not the person our *heroine* approves and seems to get
stuck there forever, but she seems to be happy and enjoys the life.

Putting it back to the shelf and picking another one *Never Let Me Go*, I am
expecting a better novel from *Kazuo*.
