---
layout: post
title: The murder on the Links
date: 2023-05-27
Author: Jack Zhu
tags: [novel, detective, Agatha Christie]
comments: true
---

Interestingly a bunch of English detective novelists are famous in China, e.g Auther
Conan Doyle for his *Holmes*, and then Agatha Christie for her *Poirot*. It's
not difficult to imagine why, esp. when this genre is not well covered in
Chiness literature. Our people try to seek a more peaceful mind which prevents
you from being thrilled, while as an animal who doesn't like to be thrilled?

She is so famous and we don't have to introduce her at all. Of course, this
*The murder on the links* is not her most famous one, but for me, it's still
fascinating and a good read.

![agatha](/images/agatha-christie.png)

I don't want to spoil the plot here and just want to convey what I feel while
and after reading the book.

A good detective novel should be able to invite the readers to follow the case
and try to untaggle the murder case(yeah, it always has the murder) and uncover
the murderer by himself, while it should NOT be so easy either. Therefore, how
to balance that is an art which only rare novelists could manage well.

We are asking why over the course of finding the culprit, i.e the motives, and
then we give it up and try another one. We notice the thin rationality behind
the motive or the contradictory factors there. We go around all the involved
people, and we exclude all and couldn't find the persuading logical or
evidental proofs.

And the case unfolds in front of us, by the detective, or by his assitant. We
are half satisfied and shout out "I told you" or "I thought of that". The even
better part to distinguish Agatha from other mundane authors is the love,
morality that are integrated into the case, which makes the case more grey
instead of black and while. Seems there is no such an absolute bad guy here,
and we even have compassion towards him. And finally, the truth is disclosed
and we feel good about it and about the wit of Poirot, and a tint of happiness,
compassion, regret at the end.

This reminds me to the Japanese novelist "Keigo Higashino", who is also very
popular in China for his novels in the similar genre. Now we could see the
similarity between his works and Agatha's, and obviously he learned a lot from
her, esp. the family obligation, the blood bind, the *have-tos*, not just right
and wrong, white and black. And it finally provokes you with a mixed feeling
and could hang there for a long time.
