---
layout: post
title: Stay True
date: 2023-04-03
Author: Jack Zhu
tags: [youth, life, love, gun-shooting, memoir]
comments: true
---

It's difficult for me to know how overwhelming it is when you try to get
into a new society with a very different culture. You're no longer the
majority, and you stand out all the time even when you don't want to. You are
sometimes targetted, insulted without reason, or left behind just because your
skin color, or your accent. The sense of security is gone and you have to keep
your eyes open wider for the surprises. I assume some of my friends or
classmates are experiencing such circumstance, not matter which country it
might be. Some might adapt well, and some will never do.

The author was also experiencing such big change of his life. He was the 2nd
generation of a Taiwan immigrant family, which made things less awkward, but
still difficult in a way which reminded him all the time. Luckily he met a
friend who was also an Asian American, but from Japan instead, so they could
hang out and share music and talk about future dreams, and finally become very
close. Being close is lucky because of that feeling when your close friends are
around, when you just feed good and comfortable, and you can be yourself.

It was an odd age, when rebellion seemed to be normal for young people. Picking
the less popular music or having odd behaviors might be a sign of making
yourself different, even when they are so superficial and you might not know
what they really mean. Making friends was based on their music taste which was
surely determined by what tapes they listened to each day, or the tapes on the
deck. Walking inot the tape store to buy the latest albums and enjoyed them so
much that you didn't want others to like them to make it a popular culture, and
you only wanted to make it yours, yours only.

Going college couldn't solve any uncertainty you got towards the future. But it
was definitely a good way to know more, to experience more, to deny more by
participating, having friends, going bars, throwing parties, etc. Since a time,
you and Ken had a habit to smoke in the balcony facing the streets, mumble
nonsense, talking girls, envisioning the uncertain future. Time went by, and
time repeated itself. From freshman to junior to senior, different people came
and went, you and Ken still enjoyed the balcony smoking time.

![balcony](images/balcony.png)

At weekend nights, you like to chat in an Internet chatroom to say a lot of BS
around and make laughs to kill the time, when you could hang out with girls for
fun. Singing along the tapes in the car while driving to a restautant, the
damage to the song was so huge, I(the author) felt odd and a mixed feeling
which they seemed so happy while that was one my favirate songs! You guys could
stay in the car till the song was over along the chorus which muffle the
original sound.

And Ken was throwing a party and asked me to stay, while I preferred to have
fun with my girl. And later, Ken was shot dead without a good reason(does any
murder require a good reason?). Then things became weird, and I felt so lost
and overwhelmed, which sometimes I blamed myself as the reason of the deason.
What if I didn't go with my girl and stayed instead?

Ken's smile was still there in the photos, and it's been over 20 years till the
book's being published. Now the author is not a historian, or anything else,
but a writer to put emotion into words, to reveal the deep truth being buried
somewhere among people, somewhere inside ourselves.

what if Ken is still alive?
